docs(interLink): add page on self-hosted provisioning (#6405)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/interlink/reference-content/self-hosted-provisioning.mdx

---

> title: InterLink Self-hosted provisioning process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: InterLink self-hosted provisioning process
```

description: Get help with understanding all the different stages of provisioning a self-hosted Scaleway InterLink.
tags: interlink provision self-hosted dedicated connection loa cross-connect steps process
dates:
  validation: 2026-04-10
  posted: 2026-04-10
---

<Message type="note">
This page concerns the provisioning process for **self-hosted** InterLinks only. For hosted InterLinks, provisioned via a partner, see the [hosted InterLink provisioning documentation](/interlink/reference-content/provisioning/).
</Message>

> This document explains the different steps of the provisioning process of self-hosted InterLinks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document explains the steps in the provisioning process for self-hosted InterLinks.
```

Provisioning a self-hosted InterLink happens in two phases: first, establishing a [dedicated physical connection](/interlink/concepts/#dedicated-physical-connection) between your router and Scaleway's router, then [creating one or more InterLinks](/interlink/how-to/order-interlink/) over that connection.

## Establishing the dedicated physical connection

Before creating a self-hosted InterLink, you must first provision a dedicated physical connection. This process is handled manually by Scaleway teams. [contact the Scaleway sales team](https://www.scaleway.com/en/contact-sales/) to provide the following information:

- The **PoP location** where your physical connection to Scaleway's network will be established.
- The **port speed**: 1 Gbps, 10 Gbps, or 100 Gbps.

> - The **Project** within your Organization to host the physical connection resource. If none is specified, Scaleway defaults to your Organization's default project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **Project** within your Organization to host the physical connection resource. If none is specified, Scaleway defaults to your Organization's default Project.
```

Once agreed, Scaleway issues a **Letter of Authorization (LOA)** containing the meet-me room details and port assignment on Scaleway's equipment. You must provide this LOA to your data center operator (or carrier) to perform the physical patching.

<Message type="tip">

> Billing for the dedicated physical connection begins once Scaleway creates the connection resource in its system, i.e. when the physical link is detected as active. This applies regardless of whether any InterLinks have been created over the connection, or whether traffic is flowing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Billing for the dedicated physical connection begins once Scaleway creates the connection resource in its system, i.e., when the physical link is detected as active. This applies regardless of whether any InterLinks have been created over the connection, or whether traffic is flowing.
```

## Partitioning the connection using InterLinks

Once a dedicated physical connection is in place, you can create one or more InterLinks over it via the Scaleway [InterLink API](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/interlink/), the [Scaleway console](/interlink/how-to/order-interlink/), or one of our other [developer tools](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/). When creating, you set the following parameters:

- **Connection type**: Self-hosted.
- **Dedicated connection**: The physical connection to use as the basis for the InterLink.
- **Bandwidth**: The bandwidth to allocate to this InterLink. Multiple InterLinks can share the same physical connection, as long as their combined bandwidth does not exceed the total port speed.
- **Region**: The region in which to create the InterLink. It must correspond to the region of the Scaleway VPC you want to later attach to the InterLink.

<Message type="note">
Creating InterLink resources over a dedicated physical connection does not incur an additional Scaleway fee beyond the physical connection itself.
</Message>

> You can attach an InterLink to a VPC in a different Project than the one hosting the dedicated physical connection, as long as both Projects belong to the same Organization and Region. This allows you to manage physical connections centrally in a dedicated network Project, while other Projects can use the InterLink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can attach an InterLink to a VPC in a different Project than the one hosting the dedicated physical connection, as long as both Projects belong to the same Organization and region. This allows you to manage physical connections centrally in a dedicated network Project, while other Projects can use the InterLink.
```

---
title: Provisioning a self-hosted InterLink
description: Get help with understanding all the different stages of provisioning a self-hosted Scaleway InterLink, from establishing the dedicated physical connection, to creating and configuring InterLinks over it, and deprovisioning when no longer needed.
tags: interlink provision self-hosted dedicated connection loa cross-connect steps process
dates:
  validation: 2025-09-30

>   posted: 2024-10-24

Author: ```suggestion
title: Provisioning a self-hosted InterLink
description: Get help with understanding all the different stages of provisioning a self-hosted Scaleway InterLink.
tags: interlink provision self-hosted dedicated connection loa cross-connect steps process
dates:
  validation: 2026-04-10
  posted: 2026-04-10
```
